Hstu attention n0loop fused unroll pr (#2896)
ROCm/composable_kernel: example/ck_tile/18_hstu_attention/README.md

# HSTU attention operator

>   HSTU-attention operator is an operator which takes tensor `q: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_qk]`,  `k: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_qk`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The HSTU-attention operator is an operator which takes as input three tensor `q: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_qk]`,  `k: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_qk`, 
```

>   `v: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_v]` and some parameters for defining the functional masking as inputs, and do the following:

Reviewer: Are the parameters for definiing functional masking, or is the operator for functional masking? It's not clear from the sentence.

But if that's what it is, then this can be changed to:

```suggestion
  `v: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_v]`, as well as parameters that define functional masking to do the following:
``

>    * Multiply `q: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_qk]` with `k: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_k]` to get temporary tensor `s: [batches, nhead, seqlen, seqlen]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Multiply `q: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_qk]` with `k: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_k]` to get the intermediate tensor `s: [batches, nhead, seqlen, seqlen]`
```

>    * Update `s` by filtering its values according to a special functional mask, which includes the logics of lower-triangular and diagonal window causal mask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Update `s` by filtering it with a functional mask that includes a lower-triangular mask, a diagonal window causal mask, and
```

>      as well assequence mask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     a sequence mask.
```

>    * Do element-wise SiLu on the `lower seqlen` dimension of `s` to get temporary tensor `p: [batches, nhead, seqlen, seqlen]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Do element-wise SiLu on the `lower seqlen` dimension of `s` to get the intermediate tensor `p: [batches, nhead, seqlen, seqlen]`
```

>    * Multiply `p : [batches, nhead, seqlen, seqlen]` with `v: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_v]` to get final output `o: [batches, seqlen_q, nhead, headsz_v]` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Multiply `p : [batches, nhead, seqlen, seqlen]` with `v: [batches, seqlen, nhead, hdim_v]` to get the final tensor `o: [batches, seqlen_q, nhead, headsz_v]` 
```

>    * Jagged inputs are also supported, where each batch has separate seqlen defined by the `sequence_offsets[]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jagged inputs are also supported, where each batch has separate seqlen defined by the `sequence_offsets[]`
```

This isn't a thing that the operator does, so it shouldn't be in the same bullet list

  

## implementation

>    The operator is implemented using a fused kernel in the example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The operator is implemented using a fused kernel:
```

>    *  Tensor S and Tensor P only exist in VGPRs as per-workgroup tiles, no global memory access is needed

Reviewer: This doesn't need to be a bullet point. You can combine it with the sentence above.

## build

   ``` bash
   #> mkdir build
   #> cd build
   #> ../script/cmake-ck-dev.sh .. gfx942              ; use #> rocminfo |grep "gfx"   to check your gpu arch
   #> make -j tile_example_hstu_attention
   ```

## test/verify

   ``` bash
   #>  build/bin/tile_example_hstu_attention -v=1 -prec=bf16 -b=10 -jagged=1 -nhead=4 -hdim_qk=128 -hdim_v=128 -seqlen=750,730,733,860,870,788,760,821,833,779 -targets=5,5,6,6,5,6,5,6,4,6
       -causal=1 -local_len=5 -context_len=6 -minfull_len=6 
   #>  . example/ck_tile/07_hstu_attention/test_hstu_attention.sh
   ```

>    Check the example file `example_hstu_attention.cpp` for an understanding of the command-line arguments. Which is like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Check the example file `example_hstu_attention.cpp` for more information about the command-line arguments.
```

To be honest, I'd rather see the explanations here, or at least have the code snippet commented. It doesn't need to be *everything* but some of it.
